Speaker 0:
We get going with this edition of build mode. I'm gonna take a moment here as always just to let people filter in. Some people coming back from lunch or whatever meeting they were just in, and then we'll get started in about a minute or so, uh, so that we can get as much content in here. Be right back. Alright. We'll get going here with a little bit of introductions just in case some people filter in. But thank you all so much for attending this edition of Build Mode. My name is John Nair. I'm a senior product marketing manager here at Vendasta, and I'm really happy to have this weekly series, uh, on how to use AI and, uh, operations inside of Vendasta platform and to get the most out of using these things together. It's been a lot of fun. We've had two sessions so far and you can find them on YouTube. This session will also be available on YouTube later if you'd like to watch, but happy to have you here in person as well too. And, uh, this session is going to be on building custom tools and integrations using AI and, uh, all of the different operations that are possible as a result of having those custom tools. So on today's agenda, we're gonna take some time to understand what I mean when I say a a tool is going to get used and what that looks like in a conversation. Uh, we're going to then learn the basics of how APIs work. Um, if you're totally new to this, uh, concept of tools and AI, then this, um, might seem like a bit of a side tangent, but it's really important to, uh, building your own. And then we're gonna see how AI employees use those tools in conversations. We're gonna take some time then to do some building, utilizing documentation to build those custom tools, and then we'll have a live example where we're going to build a weather checking tool, um, just because it's a a nice and easy and safe that you can, uh, build together. So let's get started with a, uh, demo of seeing what tools can do in a conversation. So I'm going to, uh, share this tab. This is a my listing page for, um, a example business that I like to use as a demo. Uh, mister Handy Helper, he does all sorts of different work, uh, inside of Saskatoon. And, um, I had a conversation with him about doing some gutter cleaning because it's getting close to winter here in Saskatoon, and so we would need to clean up the gutters. We had a great back and forth about, uh, this capturing my name and my information, um, and where we need to do this. And, um, now we got to this point here where mister handy helper is going to be asking about, hey. I can't book the appointment, um, but I'll pass the information along. And is there a particular day or time that works best for you? And, uh, I'm going to say, uh, anytime this week, maybe tomorrow. And our AI receptionist here, mister Handy Helper, is going to take this moment to take a look, um, at the forecast and, uh, use that to then build out, uh, hey. This is gonna work for making an appointment or not. And this is super, super reasonable, um, because this is exactly kind of how you would expect a normal person to work. If they're gonna be doing something like gutter cleaning, uh, they probably don't wanna be outside when it's, like, you know, freezing, uh, so they can't use water or that, um, you know, there's crazy wind or something. So if I go, uh, to share my, uh, screen here excuse me, share, uh, this tab here, um, we'll see that we used the current weather forecast for Saskatoon, um, and the AI assistant used an API, uh, to get information about that weather in the future. Okay. So there's a lot going in there and, um, we're gonna break it down a little bit by bit, um, to really understand what's going on with that kind of tool. Um, if you have questions as we go along, uh, please feel free to, you know, take time to, uh, leave, uh, comments in the chat, um, but there's also the q and a, uh, where you can ask your question and we'll make sure to get to it later. So what are tools? Uh, the long and the short of it is they are functions, um, or APIs that AI can use. There's often a sort of dynamic input to them. We can let AI figure out how to use them, um, or we can tell AI really specifically how to use an API and get a really specific result. And then these tools will often act as sort of a bridge between systems. You'll use, uh, one API to send information from one place to another. Now I've said APIs a lot, and for some folks, you might be wondering, um, what is an API? This is an important thing to really understand, um, when you start building out an agent and having it as part of your, um, workflow. So an API, you can think of as sort of a messenger that lets programs, uh, share info, uh, and actions. So, um, there's four really sort of common ones. Um, there's the idea of creating new data. You can read or retrieve data. You can update data, or you can delete data. You might hear this called, uh, as a CRUD operation. Okay? And so an example of creating new data, you'd be adding a user. Reading, um, would be getting a list of users or finding a really specific user based on some criteria. Updating data, you know, editing a user's info or removing the user. And so these API actions, these are the things that your AI assistant, your AI receptionist, for example, will be using to add a user, get a list of users, edit a user's info. And APIs are, uh, by and large, uh, made by whatever software company and given, uh, as access as something that you can use to work with their software. Okay. So we covered what an API is, but then in the context of AI agents, there's still this, like, tool thing that uses the API. The tool is instructions telling AI how to use an API. And so there's sort of two parts I wanna show as an example here, um, and these are really specifically how tools are built in the Vendasta platform, but there is a lot of overlap with other sort of agent tools and infrastructure. So, um, you'll have a description for your tool. And what that is is it's really telling, uh, the AI, hey. This is what the tool does, and, uh, this is kind of how you can use it. There's something like the method and the URL, and that's, uh, the API endpoint you are trying to use, and you're gonna get this from the software that you're trying to work with. There are headers. It's special info like authentication so that, uh, you as a user of your specific CRM or whatever, um, you're saying, hey, I have permission to add or update or delete or edit these entries because we don't want just anyone doing it. We wanna have, uh, you know, secure APIs for depending on the use case. And then we also have parameters. And those parameters are the details that tell an API API exactly what you wanna do when you're creating, updating, uh, reading, or deleting. And those are the basic fundamentals of a tool with the parameters being the really, really specific thing that you probably wanna figure out how to do with, uh, your, uh, API. Okay. Then you're probably saying, how do I fill out a parameter? And this can be a pretty long topic. So we will take some time to go through one as an example first, but I think it's really good to just think about some really key principles for how you should go about filling out a parameter. And, uh, some of the basics are use source documentation. You're gonna go to whatever software that you're trying to connect with. You're gonna find their API documentation, and you're gonna make sure that you're using that because that's going to give you the best, most consistent, most up to date, um, information, and you'll need that. Of course, um, a lot of us aren't really experienced with APIs or development, um, and so we're going to make sure to use the help of AI to help us fill out those parameters. Um, we might understand certain things, we might not understand other things. Um, as long as we give the right sort of context, it's not so hard to figure out how to fill out a parameter with the help of AI. There's a neat trick that we have in the Vendasta platform where you can actually import these using a a system called the CURLs. We'll take a look at that. And, uh, you're going to want to definitely take some time to manually review and or write a description. And, you know, all of the other stuff upfront, the imports, uh, the source documentation working with AI, uh, I think you can outsource a lot of that, a lot of your thinking to an AI system and it will do a really good job. But understanding what to write in the description, I think is the most important part that you shouldn't outsource when you're creating a tool. So as an example here, I have, uh, two, uh, parameters with two different description fields. In this first one, I'm saying, hey, AI, you're always going to set this parameter as temperature underscore two m comma precipitation. And what this is gonna do is make sure that when AI is using this tool, each and every time, it's going to give me this so I know that the outcome I'm gonna get from that API, really consistent. Here's the hourly precipitation at this temperature, uh, for two meters. Now in comparison, I have, uh, this parameter, uh, over here. And what you'll see is that the this description is telling AI to kind of infer the right way to fill out the API. It's saying, hey, you're gonna go find the latitude, uh, for this place, but you're gonna you're gonna do it based on the context of the conversation. We don't know maybe where, um, we're doing this weather look up as an example. Maybe it's in one location and we have another location or maybe we service a really large area and, uh, we don't know exactly the right latitude. So instead of telling the AI, hey, go out and fill this in every this way specifically, we're writing a description, a prompt maybe, if you will, of how the AI should fill out an API. Okay. Let's take a look at how you might do this, um, in practice, uh, with a, uh, little bit of documentation to build a tool. Uh, so I'm going to open up, um, my mister handy helper, uh, one more time, And we are going to have a look at, uh, this capability in the Vendasta platform. And in this capability, the tool that it used to find the Saskatoon weather. Now when I go into edit it, you'll see that for my demo, I did a little bit of cheating. I assumed that mister handy helper is always gonna be working in, uh, Saskatoon, and so I said, hey. You're always gonna look up the weather using the latitude and the longitude for Saskatoon. But, actually, maybe we don't know, um, uh, where the person is going to be, uh, chatting with mister handy helper, so we're gonna need to dynamically set this. Let's start all the way back, um, with, uh, having an API to do this work for us. So this is, uh, example that I like using because it's free. Um, it's pretty easy to test and try out and it's a little bit more user friendly, uh, of a way of figuring out how an API works. Uh, so this is, uh, the open, uh, Meteo website and you can try their API here. And this is a really nice visualization of what, um, the API is asking or for. So what I mean is I have these sort of ideas of, like, coordinates, um, all of the different variables that we could get from the API. And then way, way, way, way at the bottom, we have the API URL. A little zoom in there for you. This URL is what our AI agent, our AI receptionist in this case, would use to get information back. If I just copy this URL and I go to it in my browser, I get a whole bunch of information. Um, you know, it's not very readable to me, but the AI is able to take this information and say, oh, I understand what the weather forecast is gonna be like. Now you'll see we have things like the latitude and the longitude, and we have little equal signs, um, where we are sort of filling in the information. Uh, we have this idea of hourly, uh, things that we get. And if we were to go up here and change some of the hourly weather variables, let's say, um, speed level pressure, Then the URL that we work with, we have hourly temperature, and now we have the pressure included in the API as well. So this API is, uh, what our AI assistant, our AI receptionist in this case, is going to, uh, use to get information, and these parameters are telling the specific kinds of information that we want to get back. Okay. Um, now if you wanted to, it would not be too too hard to go in and fill out all of these parameters one by one. So you see that we have this kind of filled out. Hey. Hourly, we're gonna set the precipitation, uh, temperature two m and precipitation. And if we look at this URL, temperature two m. Okay. Um, we could probably figure that out, but, um, we have a really neat feature, um, in Vendasta that makes this a lot easier. I'm gonna copy this API, and I'm gonna go to, uh, you know, ChatGPT, Gemini, any one of those nice LLM softwares that you can work with and say, can you help me turn this into a cURL? And I'll paste that, uh, URL that I just copied there. And we'll say, hey. Here's the curl command version of your request. We get some explanation, but I'm just gonna copy that. And we'll look at, um, what happens when I add a tool from Fresh. Okay. I'm just gonna create a brand new tool and you'll see we have this gray button that says generate from a cURL, command URL. If I click on that and I paste in this command URL and hit generate, it fills out a bunch of information for me. It fills in the URL and it fills in all of these different parameters, the information, the specific information that I wanted to get back from that API. You'll see though that the one thing that it didn't do is it didn't provide a description that helps the AI understand how to fill it in dynamically. So we need to provide some sort of description, uh, to help our AI figure out what it should put in here. So for latitude, um, infer the correct latitude based on the address of the, uh, appointment. We're gonna assume that, um, this is being done where we have an appointment. And we can probably do the same for the longitude. And then we have to kind of look back and see, oh, yeah. What is this hourly parameter doing with our API? So we go back to the documentation, and we look and we see temperature comma pressure. The way this API works is you sort of put in what information you want to get and in hourly format, and then it adds it to the, uh, URL. You can see we've got a whole mess of things after hourly. It can be tricky to know what to put in for a description here, to let AI do its best job of consistently filling in this parameter to get the information that we want. So I'm gonna go back to chat GPT, and we're going to work with this, um, to help us fill out the description. Help me fill out a description for a tool. I want the AI to fill out the hourly parameter based on the information it would need to figure out whether a handyman could or couldn't do work. To really help, uh, give the best context for our AI to figure this out, we're going to take a screenshot of this, uh, the screen this interface. We're gonna paste it into chat GPT, and let's see what kind of response we get back. Awesome. Select the relevant hourly weather data variables, temperature, precipitation, wind speed, surface pressure that could affect any man's ability to work outdoors, choose parameters dynamically based on the type of work environment or safety conditions. This is all good. Um, oh, I should have been showing you this, but that's okay. This is a description for the hourly parameter, but the problem with this is our AI isn't going to know what kind of, um, variables it could properly put in. If I copy and paste this, um, right in, it's very likely that the AI is going to hallucinate, um, the different variable options. So instead, um, what we should do is we should go back to our documentation. We should figure out all of the variables that we want. Let's maybe have precipitation included here. Uh, visibility. Great. And then now that we have all of that, oh, a little bit too far. My apologies. We will copy this new URL and say, um, please give the specific variables in that description So AI knows what to choose. Here's all of the potential ones. And this is gonna get us a more consistent, uh, responses from our AI so that it knows how to fill out the API to get the information that it needs. Um, let's go with that piece there. Put that back in. Um, I will call this, uh, get weather any location, and we'll write a brief description, uh, that tells the AI how to understand to use it. Uh, use this tool when making a booking outside so that we know if it's safe to, uh, to do work outside. We will swap out this and save. And, um, let's go back to our mister handy helper and say, would it be possible to book this weekend? Awesome. The forecast looks clear. So outdoor gutter cleaning should be no problem. And if we, uh, look back at our, uh, tool, our conversation, we can see that the AI used this get weather any location and filled it in with the correct information to understand whether or not it would be safe for them to do gutter cleaning over the next couple of hours. Really, really cool. I checked the weather forecast for Saskatoon and found no significant precipitation or high winds, so outdoor work is suitable. So this example is one where we're really trying to, um, pull outside context to make it a more human and natural conversation with a AI. But what's kind of cool is that there are lots of different ways that you can use APIs to get your AI employees to do work in software and maybe in ways that would be way quicker or way more complicated than a human would ever be able to do. So, um, I hope that gives you a good idea of just the basics of utilizing a documentation to build a tool. My, uh, quick, uh, tool tips here for you as you're, uh, building tools for your AI employees, recognize which create, read, update, and delete actions you need. That's going to help you make sure that you get all of the APIs needed, um, and all of the tools you need created with those APIs. Utilize AI to help you fill out tools. I showed how you could use that command URL, um, to import a lot of the parameters, um, but you can also do the, uh, chat back and forth with AI to get the descriptions filled out or things like that. Um, I used a picture in there, and if you use AI pictures and code as context, you're gonna be in a way better shape for getting correct information. And then, uh, like I said, those descriptions in the parameters are the magic that lets AI work consistently and, uh, give you the, uh, results that we're looking and hoping for. So I hope that was, uh, helpful for you. And while this was a sort of, uh, introductory look at tools, uh, we'll be spending some time in another session to look at how you can use multiple tools, um, to work with systems that are more complex and, uh, build out those more complex workflows that a lot of people, um, would really like to have available from their AI employees. So, um, we will get that recording, uh, of this for you on YouTube, and, uh, we'll, uh, see you next week for the next edition of build mode. Um, it looks like I don't have any questions. Are there any, um, questions that I can answer for folks, um, now that we're at the thirty minute mark? Alright. I'll I will take that as a no, but thank you all so much for, uh, attending this edition, and, uh, see you next week or, uh, in the next, uh, recorded video. Thanks so much.